data/README.md, before:

# ETL (Extract, Transform, Load)

Goal is to pull together disparate data sources into a single `images.ndjson` file.

Format should be similar to the one used in [OldTO].

Inputs:

- `nyc/milstein.csv`: the vintage 2013 CSV file from the NYPL that started it all
  - Contains image ID (typically starts with "7" and ends with "f")
  - Contains title, alt_title
  - Contains dates
  - Contains creator
  - Contains source (corresponds to subcollection)
  - Contains Address and Full Address (unclear provenance)
- `Milstein_data_for_DV.csv`: the 2024 update to the CSV
  - Contains image ID (with a capital "F" this time)
  - Contains title (which may have changed since 2013)
  - Contains two UUIDs, which can be used to construct a Digital Collections (DC) URL
  - Contains a capture count, which can be used to determine if an image has backing text.
  - Contains various "subjects", which sometimes contain location information.
- `data.json`: contains OCR text from 2015 (Ocropy) plus manual fixes
- `gpt-text.json`: contains OCR text from 2024 via OpenAI

Commit message:

Reorganizing repo (#144)
* start migration

* only absolute imports

* update path

* run ingestion script

* start filling in site, geocode directories

* continue filling in site, geocode directories

* update paths

* drop old generate_static_site

* show stderr/stdout for test debugging

* more PYTHONPATH

* move cluster_locations and data files

* move extract_sizes; no more top-level .py files!

* move extract sizes, sizes.txt files

* popular photos

* update instructions

* move nyc-lat-lons-nyc.js; delete viewer dir

* start clearing out nyc dir

* move and rename grid/gold.py

* clear out grid dir

* clear out crawl dir

* apparently __init__.py is no longer a thing

* analysis folder; not sure about rotations yet

* move coders

* add types for photo extraction

* move to oldnyc/crop

* two more from nyc dir

* no more code in nyc dir

* patch e2e

* apparently one does not name a file types.py

* rv test changes

* update some paths

* __main__ guard

* move rotations.json

* start feedback tools

* move url fetcher

* move/rename ocr.json

* move ocrbacks

* start populating oldnyc/orc

* move more OCR code; generate_gpt_review is redundant with eval_and_review.py

* more OCR move

* update paths

* ocr dir cleaned out

* update paths

* drop ancient NOTES file

* move GPT OCR output into data/

* match previous GPT output

* move geogpt; all py files in oldnyc/!

* silence the vulture

* clear out feedback dir

* clear out rotations, nyc dirs

* update instructions

* update instructions

* document intention behind directory structure

data/README.md, after:

# OldNYC Ddata

All data comes together into a single `images.ndjson` file (see oldnyc/ingest).

Input data (sources of truth) live in `data/originals`. Files in the top-level
`data` directory are derived from those and other sources.

Inputs:

- `data/originals/milstein.csv`: the vintage 2013 CSV file from the NYPL that started it all
  - Contains image ID (typically starts with "7" and ends with "f")
  - Contains title, alt_title
  - Contains dates
  - Contains creator
  - Contains source (corresponds to subcollection)
  - Contains Address and Full Address (unclear provenance)
- `data/originals/Milstein_data_for_DV.csv`: the 2024 update to the CSV
  - Contains image ID (with a capital "F" this time)
  - Contains title (which may have changed since 2013)
  - Contains two UUIDs, which can be used to construct a Digital Collections (DC) URL
  - Contains a capture count, which can be used to determine if an image has backing text.
  - Contains various "subjects", which sometimes contain location information.
- `data.json`: contains OCR text from 2015 (Ocropy) plus manual fixes
- `gpt-text.json`: contains OCR text from 2024 via OpenAI

TODO:

- Document provenance for all files.
